Why did I choose Middle States Commission as a research scope
~Because the University I attend is commissioned by Middle states and I had to narrow my scope

What did you include Self-Placement Category? 
~Literally anything that had the words Self placement in it. This includes Surveys, Essays where the students had to then evaluate the essay themselves based on a rubric or defined goals,
a conversation with a admissions officer or advisor who would (Gently or not so gently) encourage students to enroll in a specific course, some schools had a questionnaire which would then 
tell the students where they should be placed, but, those questionaire's would have like one small sentence at the end saying something like: "This is merely a suggestion, choose your own adventure"

What did you include in the Summative Assessment Category? 
In this category I included assessments that were summative assessments provided by universities for college placement that did not include any of the other categories. 
Aome of these assessments included: College / university created exam, state HS literacy test, ATB, GED, random essay

What did you include in the Transcripts Category? 
Any placement assessment that was based on information the university could obtain from a students admissions package or transcripts. This included things like: Class rank or GPA. 
Yes, there are schools placing students in first year courses based on this information. At first I was very surprised. But the optimist in me would like to think they only use this
information to place students who otherwise show promise but have not taken exams such as the SAT etc. 

What did you include in the Concordant Assessments Category? 
Any exams that would give a concordant "grade" for first year writing courses. These exams may include: AP, IB, AICE, Dual Enrollment, Clep, Dantes
These exams replace a student taking the actual course. 

What did you include in the College Readiness Category? 
In this category I included exams such as SAT / ACT / PSAT, that were created in order to measure whether students were ready for college or not. 

If the accuplacer was a optional test for placement, did you include it? 
Yes, I did. I chose to do this because for those schools, they mostly did a form of hollistic placement where they reviewed other exams such as SAT || AP etc. And for the schools where 
the Accuplacer was optional, I believe the accuplacer score was mostly geared towards non-traditional students in these instances. This did mess with my data a lot, but even with that 
acknowledgement, that's still a point of research. 

What do you think is the biggest prob. with your data? 
Because a majority of universities use more than one form of assessment for placement, it gets tricky. 

Why did you choose to include "Self - Placement" in "Directed Self-Placement" category?
Because I'm assuming all universities have some variation of an advisor or mentor students will probably meet with while completing this process

Did you include a differentiation for accuplacer or exams that were given across different modalities? Why not? 
~Yes, depending on when a student takes the accuplacer, they may choose to take it on paper etc. Moreover, 
for schools who use their own form of assessment, many acknowledge on their website that students have more than one type of way to take an exam. 
No, I did not choose to differentiate based on modalities because that goal was beyond the scope of this project, but can be a further point of inquiry. 


Did you make distinctions for the different types of AP exams that could be used to fulfill FYW courses? 
~No. 

Did you make distinctions for the different types of CLEP exams that could be used to fulfill FYW courses? 
~No. 
